A frog is any member of a diverse and largely carnivorous group of short-bodied, tailless amphibians. The oldest fossil "proto-frog" appeared in the early Triassic of Madagascar, but molecular clock dating suggests their origins may extend further back to the Permian, 265 million years ago. Frogs are widely distributed, ranging from the tropics to subarctic regions, but the greatest concentration of species diversity is in tropical rainforests. 

species:
There are over 6,300 recorded species, accounting for around 88% of extant amphibian species. They are also one of the five most diverse vertebrate orders. Warty frog species tend to be called toads, but the distinction between frogs and toads is informal, not from taxonomy or evolutionary history.

body of a frog:

An adult frog has a stout body, protruding eyes, anteriorly-attached tongue, limbs folded underneath, and no tail (except in tailed frogs). Frogs have glandular skin, with secretions ranging from distasteful to toxic. Their skin varies in colour from well-camouflaged dappled brown, grey and green to vivid patterns of bright red or yellow and black to show toxicity and ward off predators. Adult frogs live in fresh water and on dry land; some species are adapted for living underground or in trees.

life cycle:
The frog lays eggs and in groups known as spwan.  As the fertilized eggs mature, the yolk in each egg splits into more and more cells and begins to take the form of a tadpole, the larva of a frog. Within one to three weeks, the egg is ready to hatch, and a tiny tadpole breaks free.Tadpoles, frogs' larvae, have rudimentary gills, a mouth, and a long tail. For the first week or two after the tadpole hatches, it moves very little. During this time, the tadpole absorbs the remaining yolk left over from the egg, which provides much-needed nourishment. After absorbing the yolk, the tadpole is strong enough to swim on its own.

Most tadpoles feed on algae and other vegetation, so they are considered herbivores. They filter material from the water as they swim or tear away bits of plant material. As the tadpole continues to grow, it begins to develop hind limbs. Its body elongates and its diet grows more robust, shifting to larger plant matter and even insects. Later in development, front limbs grow and tails shrink. Skin forms over the gills.

At approximately 12 weeks of age, the tadpole's gills and tail have been fully absorbed into the body, meaning that the frog has reached the adult stage of its life cycle. It is now ready to venture out onto dry land and, in time, repeat the life cycle.
